#622 Init example for project template Java/EMF/Eclipse (#152)
eclipse-glsp/glsp-examples: project-templates/java-emf-eclipse/README.md

# Eclipse GLSP - Project Template:<br> 🖥️ Java ● 🗂️ EMF ● 🖼️ Eclipse

This folder contains a simple _project template_ to get you started quickly for your diagram editor implementation based on [GLSP](https://github.com/eclipse-glsp/glsp).
It provides the initial setup of the package architecture and environment for a GLSP diagram editor that uses ...

-   🖥️ The [Java GLSP server framework](https://github.com/eclipse-glsp/glsp-server)
-   🗂️ An [EMF](https://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/)-based source model

> -   🖼️ The [Eclipse integration](https://github.com/eclipse-glsp/glsp-eclipse-integration) to make your editor available an Eclipse RCP Editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   🖼️ The [Eclipse integration](https://github.com/eclipse-glsp/glsp-eclipse-integration) to make your editor available in Eclipse RCP
```

Then open the [`glsp-client`](glsp-client/) directory.

For a smooth development experience we recommend a set of useful VS Code extensions. When the workspace is first opened VS Code will ask you wether you want to install those recommended extensions.
Alternatively, you can also open the `Extension View` (Ctrl + Shift + X) and type `@recommended` into the search field to see the list of `Workspace Recommendations`.

## Eclipse workspace

The server/editor part consists of a set of [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/ide/) plugins that have to be imported into your Eclipse IDE workspace.
Open an Eclipse instance and workspace of your choice then open the import menu (`File -> Import...`).
Choose `Maven -> Existing Maven Projects` and click `Next >`.
Select the parent directory of this README as `Root Directory`. Make sure that all
projects are selected and click finish.

To resolve all compilation errors you have to set the correct target platform.
Got to the preferences (`Window -> Preferences`) and navigate to the target platform options (`Plug-in Development -> Target Platform`)-
Selected the `2021-03-Release` target definition and click `Apply`.

> Once the target definitions has been resolved there should be no more compilation errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the target platform has been resolved there should be no more compilation errors.
```

## Building the example

The server component is built with `maven` and the client component is built with `yarn`.
A convenience script to build both is provided.
To build all components execute the following in the directory containing this README:

```bash
yarn build
```

In addition, it is also possible to build each component individually:

```bash
# Build only the glsp-client
yarn build:client

# Build only glsp-server
yarn build:server
```

> Or you can use the available VSCode tasks configured in the [glsp-client](glsp-client/) (via Menu _Terminal > Run Task..._)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you can use the available VS Code tasks configured in the [glsp-client](glsp-client/) (via Menu _Terminal > Run Task..._)
```

-   `Build TaskList GLSP Client example`
-   `Copy TaskList GLSP Client bundle`

## Running/Debugging the example

To test the Tasklist diagram editor a launch configuration is provided. In your [Eclipse Workspace](#eclipse-workspace) navigate to the
`org.eclipse.glsp.example.javaemf.editor` plugin. Start or debug the example by via right-clicking on the `TaskListEditor.launch` file (`Run as -> TaskListEditor`).

> This opens a second (i.e. Runtime) instance of Eclipse which has the TaskList editor plugins preinstalled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This opens a second instance of Eclipse, which has the GLSP task list editor plugins preinstalled.
```
